A Brilliant Young Mind (2015)

Nathan Ellis, a 9-year-old maths prodigy, looses his father in a car accident. Nathan is diagnosed as being on the autism spectrum, and his father was the only one who was able to connect with him. Although Nathan values his mother, Julie, he shuns any physical contact with her and treats her as more of a caretaker than a parent. Wanting to make sure Nathan is not distracted from his studies, Julie enrolls him in advanced classes at a new school. There, he comes under the tutelage of teacher Martin Humphreys, a fellow maths genius. Martin sees himself in Nathan, once a promising young mind in the field of mathematics, who gave it all up once he was diagnosed with his illness (ML).
Seven years later, Martin is preparing Nathan to compete for a place in the International Mathematical Olympiad, a high school competition consisting of the world's best young mathematicians. This year, it is to be held in Cambridge after a two-week maths camp in Taiwan where the students prepare for the test that determines the winners. Nathan fears he is not good enough to qualify but ends up doing well enough to accompany 15 other British teenagers to Taiwan.
Suddenly thrust out of his comfort zone, Nathan finds himself no longer the smartest maths whiz in the room, and his social anxieties nearly paralyse his performance. He has trouble reading the social cues of others and flinches at the slightest physical contact with another person. Nathan is paired with a female Chinese student, Zhang Mei, who slowly helps him adjust to his new surroundings and helps him fight through his fears. By the skin of their teeth, Nathan and Zhang make the cut to compete in Cambridge.
Back in England, Zhang stays with Nathan and his mother, who is shocked to find that his behaviour has transformed into something more normal. She becomes aware that he may have feelings for Zhang, which she asks him. Not fully understanding the concept of love, Nathan is unsure how to express his feelings. He keeps his emotions bottled up as they all travel to Cambridge and settle in for the Olympiad.
Things quickly unravel when Zhang's uncle catches her in Nathan's room one morning. This causes Zhang to withdraw from the competition and leave. Nathan, who now believes he loves Zhang, is torn between her and the Olympiad. When he sits down among hundreds of other students around the world for the exam, the first question triggers memories of his dead father, which combined with his newly lost love, creates an emotional overload. At the pinnacle moment of his mathematical career, Nathan must make a decision whether to stay and pursue his dream, or give in to the pain that has haunted him for most of his life.
Nathan rushes out of the exam hall with Martin and Julie in tow. The latter finds him in a café, where he speaks of his emotional overload, both from the loss of his father and the girl who appreciated and loved him, Zhang Mei. They embrace at last, then Julie drives Nathan to the station to fetch back Zhang Mei.
Note: This film was selected out of the two eligible to represent 2015 because of the established box office earnings criteria. However, the other film, Jane Wants a Boyfriend, provides a fantastic opportunity for further research as it is a very rich case study.

The Accountant (2016)
“Christian” is an autistic child whose mother desires to treat at the Harbor Neuroscience facility. Instead, Christian is raised by his father, a U.S. Army psychological operations officer who refuses to enroll him in the facility. When the mother leaves the family, overwhelmed with their reality, the father trains Christian and his brother in martial arts, encouraging him to acclimate himself to triggering stimuli rather than avoiding them.
As an adult, the child acts as a forensic accountant investigating criminal organizations, looking at their financial records to uncover thefts. He operates a small accounting office that serves as a front for his money laundering enterprise. He is seen living a regimented life in a suburban home. His criminal clients contact him via an unnamed woman, who also organizes his business, identities and life. After Living Robotics' CEO, Lamar Blackburn, and his sister Rita learn of accounting irregularities from in-house accountant Dana Cummings, they hire Christian to audit their firm with Dana's assistance. 

Please Stand By (2018) 

Note: Out of the two eligible films, this was selected to represent 2018. No data was found on their exact box office impact, but both films were independent and had limited theatrical runs, aiming at niche audiences. Ultimately, Please Stand By was chosen due to 1. The casting of an A-list celebrity making its ultimate impact possibly bigger and 2. The film being a richer case for analysis. Neither of the films made it to their year’s top 100 biggest grossing films. 

Wendy is an autistic young woman with a special interest in Star Trek. She lives a routine life in a San Francisco group home where she is monitored by the house manager, Scottie. She spends her time writing a 427-page Star Trek script to enter in Paramount Pictures' screenwriting contest for the $100,000 prize.
Wendy is visited by her sister Audrey, who shows her pictures of her infant daughter, Ruby, and reveals that she is selling their childhood home. Wendy asks her to take her home, arguing that she will be able to buy back the house and help care for Ruby once she wins the screenwriting contest. Audrey refuses, informing Wendy she is not capable of caring for a baby. Wendy has a meltdown and Audrey leaves the group home weeping.
After Wendy misses the mail-in date to send her script to Paramount Pictures, she decides to deliver the script herself. She leaves the group home early the next morning and is followed by the group home's small dog, Pete. They board a bus to Los Angeles, but are left by the side of the road as Pete urinates on the bus.
Wendy then wanders into a shanty town, where she is robbed of most of her money. She then wanders to a nearby shop and is nearly swindled out of the last of her money by an employee. Luckily, elderly woman Rose intervenes to stop them from exploiting Wendy. She sympathizes with her as her grandson is also autistic, and lets Wendy accompany her on the senior citizens' bus. However, the driver falls asleep at the wheel, crashing the bus.
Following the bus crash, Wendy wakes up in a hospital in Bakersfield. Still determined to deliver her script as planned, she leaves Pete at the hospital and escapes. During her escape, Wendy loses part of her script by chance. She gathers used paper and begins rewriting it.
Simultaneously, Audrey and Scottie have realized Wendy is missing. They begin to search for her and file a missing persons report. After correctly deducing that Wendy left for LA to personally deliver her script, Scottie and her son Sam leave on the road. The Bakersfield hospital notifies Scottie and Audrey of Wendy's whereabouts; police continue the search from there. Scottie and Sam find the missing script pages while scouring the hospital.
Wendy then attempts to buy a bus ticket to LA, but is unable to as she has no money. She ultimately stows away on the next bus there, inside the baggage compartment. Upon her arrival to LA, Wendy wanders around until two police officers recognize her from the missing persons report. Fortunately, Officer Frank gains Wendy's trust by speaking to her in Klingon. They bring her to the police station, where she is reunited with Audrey and Scottie. They drive Wendy to Paramount Pictures so she can deliver her script as planned.
Despite being stonewalled by a bad-mannered mailroom worker, Wendy is able to sneak past security and submit the script to the turn-in box. Satisfied that she has completed her mission, Wendy informs her sister she did this to prove that she was more capable than Audrey thought.
Wendy returns to the group home where she later receives a letter from Paramount Pictures informing her that her script was not chosen, but encouraging her to continue writing. Despite the rejection, she is satisfied with everything she has accomplished. Wendy visits Audrey at their childhood home and holds her niece in her arms for the first time, while her sister embraces her.

The Fanatic (2019)

Moose is an autistic man who is also an avid film buff. He fills his apartment with memorabilia, especially those of cult movie star Hunter Dunbar, with whom he has developed an unhealthy parasocial obsession. When Moose finally gets an opportunity to meet him and get an autograph, he loses his chance when Dunbar's ex-wife Brenda abruptly arrives and starts an argument. As Dunbar storms away, Moose follows him begging for an autograph, only for a frustrated Dunbar to rudely accost him.
Later, Moose's friend, a young paparazza named Leah, shows Moose a mobile app that publishes the home addresses of famous celebrities, including Dunbar. Moose visits Dunbar's house and tries to give him a letter while also begging him for an autograph. Dunbar, fearing for the safety of his young son around Moose, tells him to stay out of their neighborhood, reluctantly signing Moose’s shirt as an autograph. Moose returns by climbing a fence, but is scared off by Dunbar's housekeeper Dora. 
Moose returns to Dunbar's home and is once again confronted by Dora. Becoming frightened, he pushes her away, inadvertently causing her to fall and strike her head, killing her. He sneaks into Dunbar's house, going through his personal belongings before hiding in a closet. Later, Dunbar returns home and falls asleep. Moose touches his body and takes photos next to him, which he uploads onto his social media accounts before fleeing.
The following day, Dunbar sees Moose on his street and threatens to kill him if he sees him again, and also calls him a stalker. Moose has a mental breakdown and burns all of his Hunter Dunbar memorabilia. Leah visits him and confronts him about his behavior, threatening to go to the police for his own good, but Moose kicks her out of his home.
Moose returns to Dunbar's home while he's asleep and ties him to his bed. After Dunbar wakes up, Moose taunts him with a series of cruel and violent pranks. A terrified Dunbar pleads for Moose to let him go with promises of autographs and friendship. Moose agrees and unties Dunbar, who brutally attacks him. 
Moose aimlessly wanders the streets of Hollywood, as passing tourists request to take photos with him, believing his wounds to be realistic prosthetic makeup. Leah finds him and takes him to a hospital. Meanwhile, Dunbar is arrested by the police, who mistakenly believe he killed Dora. Leah describes how Moose "eventually looks at his injuries like a badge of honour", followed by a drawing of a happy Moose with a pirate hook and an eye patch, with Leah included in the drawing as a guardian angel.

The Night Clerk (2020)

Bart Bromley lives with his mom and has Asperger syndrome. He places hidden cameras in a room at the hotel where he works as a night desk clerk and uses the live feeds and recordings to overcome his social awkwardness by imitating the speech and mannerisms of the guests. On his nightly shift, Bart watches Karen, who has recently checked in. After his shift, he buys ice cream, goes home, and continues to watch Karen.
Bart sees Karen let an unknown man into her room. After they argue, the man begins to beat her. Bart watches as a gun falls from Karen's purse, then drives to the hotel to try to rescue her. He enters via a side door, and soon afterwards Bart's co-worker Jack hears a gunshot. Jack enters Karen's room, where he finds Karen dead and Bart sitting on the bed. While Jack calls 911, Bart removes the hidden cameras, but accidentally leaves a storage card behind.
The next day, Bart is questioned by Detective Espada and claims he went home after buying ice cream, then returned to the hotel because he forgot his wallet. Espada realizes Bart is lying because if he had not had his wallet, he would not have been able to buy ice cream. Bart later re-watches the recording of Karen's room and sees that the man she met had a tattoo of a bird on his arm.
The next day, Bart's boss reassigns him to a new hotel. On his first shift, he meets Andrea Rivera, who recognizes that he has Asperger's, flirts with him, and checks into a room. The next day, Bart finds that he is missing a storage card, which Espada finds. Bart places cameras in Andrea's room and later shares a kiss with her near the hotel's pool.
The following day, Bart gets a haircut and buys a new suit, car, and cologne. He tries to visit Andrea at the hotel, only to find her having sex with the unknown man from Karen's room, whom he recognizes from the tattoo. Bart returns home and finds police have taken all his computer and camera equipment. He tells Espada his hard drives are empty because he deleted all the recordings before police arrived. After Espada leaves, Bart retrieves a hidden hard drive that contains a copy of the recording from Karen's room.
The unknown man Bart saw with Andrea is Karen's husband Nick, a detective who has been having an affair with Andrea and wants her to kill Bart so he cannot identify Nick to police. As Bart watches the cameras in Andrea's room, he sees Nick argue with her and start to beat her. He rushes to the hotel and enters Andrea's room as Nick leaves, then shows Andrea the hidden cameras. At his house, he shows her the recording from Karen's room and Andrea sees that Nick killed Karen. Andrea begins to cry and goes to sleep in Bart's bed. He lies down with her and falls asleep.
The following morning, Bart finds that Andrea is gone, as is the hard drive on which he had the copy of the recording from Karen's room. He also finds that Andrea has left the gun from Karen's purse on his bed. Andrea gives Nick the hard drive with the recording of Karen's room and they start to drive out of town. The police arrive at Bart's house and find that Bart is not there, but has left the gun and the camera storage cards along with a note for Espada. Nick and Andrea are pulled over and arrested. Bart walks through a local mall and practices the conversational speech and body language he has observed in his recordings.

Music (2021)

Newly sober alcoholic Kazu "Zu" Gamble is left as the sole guardian of her teenage, nonverbal autistic half-sister, Music, following the death of their grandmother, Millie, who raised Music. Zu deals drugs with the help of her friend Rudy but is unable to pay him back as she is unemployed. One morning soon after Zu begins to care for her, Music has a meltdown when Zu is unable to braid her hair. Her neighbor, Ebo, comes to help calm Music, and Zu and Ebo form a friendship.
After Ebo reveals that his ex-wife left him for his brother, Zu promises to accompany him to their wedding. Rudy asks Zu to deliver HIV medication to a buyer, later revealed to be Ebo. When Zu and Music go for a walk, Zu becomes distracted, and Music is stung by a bee. Music suffers an allergic reaction and is hospitalized. Zu cannot afford the treatment and realizes that she has left her bag in the park, which contained drugs intended to be sold to a pop star. Distraught, Zu suffers a relapse and begins drinking. While intoxicated, she gets into a fight with Ebo's neighbor, and the police are called; she admits to Ebo that she is on probation. The same night, Felix attempts to intervene during a physical altercation between his parents, and his father accidentally kills Felix.
Sometime later, Ebo attends his brother's wedding alone. Meanwhile, Zu brings Music to an adoption center but cannot bring herself to leave her there. They decide to join Ebo at the wedding, where Zu and Ebo share a kiss on stage and prepare to sing as Ebo plays the piano. Music interrupts and begins to sing herself. Later, the three are together happily preparing Music's breakfast. Music is given a new support dog, which Felix had arranged for her prior to his death.

I used to be famous (2022)

Vince Denham used to be famous as "Vinnie D", one of five members of the boyband Stereo Dream. 20 years later, he lives unemployed in, London. Desperate to recapture his former success, he struggles to write a first solo album. One day he starts practicing on his keyboard in the middle of a market when 18-year-old Stevie starts drumming along. The crowd is captivated, but the show ends abruptly when Stevie's worried mother Amber pulls him away.
A video of the performance goes viral, and after some scouting Vince finds a local pub manager who agrees to let them perform at an upcoming music night. Vince searches for Stevie, and stumbles across him and Amber again when he overhears and joins a drumming circle at a church. He invites Stevie to perform, but Amber immediately refuses. She explains that Stevie is autistic: he is unable to handle crowds or unusual situations, and she does not trust that Vince can handle his meltdowns. However, she changes her mind when Vince is able to calm Stevie down with a drumming exercise they learned at the church.
Dubbed "The Tin Men", the gig starts well, but after Vince punches a man for heckling Stevie the landlord kicks them out. Amber breaks off contact between the two. Vince spirals into depression, remembering how he chose going on tour with Stereo Dream over visiting his terminally ill brother Ted, missing his death and causing an estrangement with his mother. Meanwhile, Stevie lashes out at Amber, accusing her of secretly resenting him for forcing her to quit her dancing career to care for him, and insisting that Vince meant well. He begins visiting local pubs and secures another gig for The Tin Men, then sets Vince up with an opportunity to apologise to Amber. Vince and Stevie begin practicing and writing new songs again.
Former Stereo Dream member Austin Roberts sees a video of The Tin Men and offers Vince the chance to be the opening act on his final tour. Their old manager also offers him a recording contract, but dismisses Stevie as "a special needs kid,” he demands that Vince performs as a solo act, and only uses label-approved studio musicians instead of Stevie. Vince is appalled, but also unable to resist the opportunity—he accepts. He tries to let Stevie down gently by spinning it as an opportunity for him to pursue his own dream of enrolling at a music school. Stevie is distraught, but does as Vince suggests, and he manages to win a place at the Royal College of Music.
Amber visits Vince secretly and thanks him for making her realise Stevie's potential, but also demands that Vince cut off contact entirely, worried that Stevie now has an unrealistic expectation of achieving the success Vince promised. Vince agrees, but later in the studio is alienated by his label-assigned producers' choices, including removing Stevie's drumming for a more "contemporary" electronic beat. On Stevie's birthday, he decides to set up one final surprise Tin Men gig at the market where they first performed together. As Amber and Stevie arrive, he invites Stevie onto the stage. A huge crowd gathers and cheers for Stevie, and Amber, unable to resist, joins in.

Max Bernal is a former comedy writer turned struggling stand-up comedian living with his father Stan. He does not get along with his former wife Jenna as they often butt heads over how to parent their autistic son Ezra. Ezra struggles to adapt to the outside world, and Max often takes him to comedy clubs with him so he can be his good luck charm, much to Jenna's irritation.
Upon hearing Jenna's lawyer boyfriend Bruce make an off-hand joke about beating Max up, Ezra takes it literally and attempts to warn his father only to be scared in front of an oncoming taxi by a dog. When Ezra refuses to explain what happened, his doctor assumes he was trying to hurt himself and, combined with previous outbursts at school, has him transferred to a special-needs school and an unnecessary medication. When Max voices his objections, he winds up getting a three-month restraining order from seeing his son when he punches the doctor.
Left with no other choice, Max 'kidnaps' Ezra in the middle of the night to protect him from his perceived toxic environment. En route to his friend Nick's cabin in Michigan, Max learns from his manager friend Jayne that a video she posted of a bombed comedy set is in the hands of Jimmy Kimmel, and he wants him to perform on his show provided he and Ezra make the cross-country drive to a Friday audition in Los Angeles.
Meanwhile, the New Jersey police and child services, despite Jenna's insistence on keeping the response as quiet as possible to shield Ezra, send out an Amber alert across the country, forcing Jenna and a reluctant Stan to chase after the pair, during which they are forced to evaluate their separate failures as parents. Upon finding out what Jenna did, Max tries to avoid the cops but gets them lost in the woods at night, causing Ezra to have a panic attack and chastise his father for not being the parent he needed him to be. Max assures Ezra that despite his faults, he's trying to do right by him so that he'll be able to take care of himself when Max can't.
Max and Ezra make it to Los Angeles, but the audition goes off the rails when the F.B.I.arrives to arrest Max seconds before Jenna and Stan show up. As Jenna tries to downplay the situation, Ezra attacks an agent attempting to handcuff Max, who assures him everything will be alright. Later, Max has moved back in with Jenna, and the two proceed to work around Max's lax house arrest to raise Ezra.
In a mid-credit scene, Max, minus Ezra, gets to appear on Jimmy Kimmel Live, and an awkward moment happens back-stage due to how similar Max's court-ordered parole officer looks to Jimmy's assistant Guillermo.

Love Child (2024)

Note: Both eligible films from this year are international and not in english. Love Child is Filipinian and the other eligible film, Goyo, is Argentinian. Love Child was selected according to the established category of box office impact. A positive addition is that Spanish from Rio de la Plata (Goyo's language) is the researchers exact dialect, and a Filipino film kept that from potentially being an emotional bias. 

College sweethearts Ayla and Paolo decide to drop out of school to start a family after a whirlwind romance leads to an unplanned pregnancy. Four years later, they are devastated to learn that their son, Kali, is diagnosed with autism. As they navigate the complexities of raising a child with special needs, they confront an increasingly unsupportive environment. Their journey challenges their relationship and the dream of a complete, harmonious family, forcing them to find strength and resilience in the face of adversity.

The Accountant 2

Former FinCEN director Raymond King meets with the mysterious assassin Anaïs to ask her help locating a Salvadorean family, offering only a dated photo of the parents and their young son. Anaïs does not respond to the offer but warns King he has been followed. King is killed in the ensuing gunfight while Anaïs walks away unscathed. King's protégé and current deputy director of FinCEN, Marybeth Medina, identifies his body, sees "find the accountant" written on his arm, and decides to take up the case.
Medina, despite being mistrustful of Christian Wolff's illegal activities, asks him for help finding the family in the photo. Wolff organizes a collage of information which shows that the family in the photo fled from El Salvador to Los Angeles, encountering various hazards along the way. Cobb, the man tasked with killing Anaïs and King, informs his supervisor Burke, who tells him to continue pursuing Anaïs, lest she realize what Burke did to her.
Christian invites his estranged brother, Braxton, still an assassin, to help with the case. Justine, still residing at the New Hampshire compound where she met Christian, works with a group of autistic children to hack into different technologies to help Christian. Their group finds a photo of Anaïs but are unable to identify her. Uncomfortable with their illegal methods, Medina breaks from the group. She visits a hospital mentioned in one of King's reports, where she discovers Anaïs is the mother from the photo. Anaïs was earlier involved in a car accident, causing brain damage, loss of memory and acquired savant syndrome, which includes intense combat skills.
Batu, a contractor for hitmen, sets a contract for Medina which Braxton rejects. Wolff later sees the message on Braxton's phone, realizes there is a hit on Medina and arrives after she has been wounded by Anaïs. At Medina's, Anaïs sees the old photo of her family and regains some of her memories, discovering that Burke was the one who had imprisoned her and murdered her husband in Juarez.
Braxton and Christian realize that Anaïs's still-living, autistic son Alberto is being held captive at a prison camp in Juarez with other children of trafficking victims, separated from their families. They assault the compound and save Alberto and the rest of the children after killing Cobb and the other guards. Justine blackmails Batu into canceling his contract on Medina. Justine tips off Anaïs to Burke's hiding spot in Costa Rica and she kills him. Justine and the gifted children prepare to welcome Alberto to their facility in New Hampshire, and Braxton and Christian discuss going on a brotherly hiking trip in Chattahoochee.
